Audit/worker (#153)
filecoin-project/lotus-docs: content/en/storage-providers/advanced-configurations/workers.md

---
title: "Workers"

> description: "Lotus has a lot of advanced configurations you can tune to optimize your storage provider setup. This guide explains the advanced configuration options for Seal and PoSt workers"
> lead: "Lotus has a lot of advanced configurations you can tune to optimize your storage provider setup. This guide explains the advanced configuration options for Seal and PoSt workers"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Lotus has a lot of advanced configurations you can tune to optimize your storage provider setup. This guide explains the advanced configuration options for seal workers and PoSt workers"
lead: "Lotus has a lot of advanced configurations you can tune to optimize your storage provider setup. This guide explains the advanced configuration options for seal workers and PoSt workers"
```

draft: false
menu:
    storage-providers:
        parent: "storage-providers-advanced-configurations"
weight: 110
toc: true
---

While the Lotus workers have very reasonable default settings, some storage providers might want to fine tune some advanced configurations according to their setup.

> ## Resource allocation in Seal Workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resource allocation in seal workers
```

Each **Seal Worker** can potentially run multiple tasks in available slots. Each slot is called a _window_. The number of available windows per worker is determined by the requirements of the sealing tasks being allocated to the worker and its available system resources, including:

- Number of CPU threads the task will use.
- Minimum amount of RAM required for good performance.
- Maximum amount of RAM required to run the task, where the system can swap out part of the RAM to disk, and the performance won't be affected too much.
- Whether the system has a GPU.

### Task resource table

The default resource table lives in [resources.go](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/blob/master/extern/sector-storage/storiface/resources.go) and can be edited to tune the scheduled behavior to fit specific sealing clusters better.

> Default resource value table. Some of these values are _fairly_ conservative:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the default resource value table. There values are conservative:
```

What does _conservative_ mean in this context: are we inflating these values, or deflating them?

| Sector size | Task Type  | Threads | Min RAM | Min disk space| GPU        |
|-------------|------------|---------|---------|------------|------------|
|     32G     | AddPiece   | 1*      | 4G      | 4G         |            |
|             | PreCommit1 | 1**     | 56G     | 64G        |            |
|             | PreCommit2 | 92%***  | 15G     | 15G        | If Present |
|             | Commit1    | 0****   | 1G      | 1G         |            |
|             | Commit2    | 92%***  | 32G+30G | 32G+150G   | If Present |
|     64G     | AddPiece   | 1*      | 8G      | 8G         |            |
|             | PreCommit1 | 1**     | 112G    | 128G       |            |
|             | PreCommit2 | 92%***  | 30G     | 30G        | If Present |
|             | Commit1    | 0****   | 1G      | 1G         |            |
|             | Commit2    | 92%***  | 64G+60G | 64G+190G   | If Present |

> \* AddPiece can use multiple threads, it's likely that this value will change in near future\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\* AddPiece can use multiple threads. This value may change in near future.
```

> ** When used with the `FIL_PROOFS_USE_MULTICORE_SDR=1` env var, PreCommit1 can use multiple cores (up to the number of cores sharing L3 caches)\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\** When used with the `FIL_PROOFS_USE_MULTICORE_SDR=1` environment variable, `PreCommit1` can use multiple cores, up to the number of cores sharing L3 caches.
```

> *** Depending on the number of available threads, this value means:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\*** Depending on the number of available threads, this value means:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```plaintext
````

 12  * 0.92 = 11
 16  * 0.92 = 14
 24  * 0.92 = 22
 32  * 0.92 = 29
 64  * 0.92 = 58
 128 * 0.92 = 117
```

> **** The Commit1 step is very cheap in terms of CPU time and blocks the Commit2 step. Allocating it to zero threads makes it more likely it will be scheduled with higher priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\**** The Commit1 step is very cheap in terms of CPU time and blocks the Commit2 step. Allocating it to zero threads makes it more likely it will be scheduled with higher priority.
```

The Unseal task has the same resource use as the PreCommit1 task.

{{< alert icon="info" >}}
The default and custom configurations in the task resource table can be overridden using environment variables on a per worker basis. See the [environment variables]({{< relref "#control-groups" >}}) section for information. You can also gather these details using the `lotus-worker resources --default` command.
{{< /alert >}}

### Resource windows

> The scheduler uses the concept of resource windows to prevent resource starvation of tasks requiring larger amounts of resources by tasks with smaller resource requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scheduler uses the concept of resource windows to prevent _resource starvation_ of tasks requiring larger amounts of resources by tasks with smaller resource requirements.
```

A resource window is simply a bucket of sealing tasks that can be run by a given worker in parallel based on the resources the worker has available when no tasks are running.

> In the scheduler, each worker has:
> - Scheduling windows - Two resource windows used to assign tasks to execute from the global queue
> - Preparing window - One resource window in which tasks are prepared to execute (for example, sector data is fetched if needed)
> - Executing window - One resource window for currently executing tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the scheduler, each worker has:

- Scheduling windows - Two resource windows used to assign tasks to execute from the global queue.
- Preparing window - One resource window in which tasks are prepared to execute. For example, sector data is fetched if needed.
- Executing window - One resource window for currently executing tasks.
```

> When tasks arrive in the global scheduling queue, the scheduler will look for empty scheduling windows, and based on a number of factors, like whether the worker already has direct access to sector data, task types supported by the worker, whether the worker has disk space for sector data, task priority - tasks may be assigned to the scheduling window.
> 
> After a scheduling window is filled with a number of tasks, it's sent to the worker for processing. The worker will pull tasks out of the scheduling window and start preparing them in the preparing window. After the preparing step is done, the task will be executed in the executing window.
> 
> After the worker has fully processed a scheduling window, it's sent back to the global scheduler to get more sealing tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When tasks arrive in the global scheduling queue, the scheduler will look for empty scheduling windows. The scheduler may assign tasks to the scheduling window based on several factors, such as: 

- whether the worker already has direct access to sector data.
- task types supported by the worker.
- whether the worker has disk space for sector data.
- task priority.

After the scheduler fills the scheduling window, the schedule is sent to the worker for processing. The worker will pull tasks out of the scheduling window and start preparing them in the preparing window. After the preparing step is done, the task will be executed in the executing window.

After the worker has fully processed a scheduling window, it's sent back to the global scheduler to get more sealing tasks.
```

### Task priorities

When the scheduler decides which tasks to run, it takes into account the priority of running a specific task.

> There are two priority tiers - high priority, for tasks that are cheap to execute but block other actions, and normal priority for all other tasks. Default priorities are defined in the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two priority tiers - high priority, for tasks that are cheap to execute but block other actions, and normal priority for all other tasks. Default priorities are defined in the table below. The lower the number, the higher the priority. Negative numbers have the highest priority. So `-2` has a higher priority than `1`.
```

| Task Type           | Priority |
|---------------------|----------|
| RegenSectorKey      | 10       |
| AddPiece            | 9        |
| ReplicaUpdate       | 8        |
| ProveReplicaUpdate2 | 7        |
| ProveReplicaUpdate1 | 6        |
| PreCommit1          | 5        |
| PreCommit2          | 4        |
| Commit2             | 3        |
| Commit1             | 2        |
| Unseal              | 1        |
| Fetch               | -1       |
| Finalize            | -2       |

> - Lower number means higher priority.
> - Negative number means the highest priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> When comparing task priority:
> - High priority tasks are considered first
> - Sectors with deals are considered second (more deals add more priority)
> - If the above is equal, tasks are selected based on priorities in the table
> - If the above is equal, sectors with lower sector numbers are selected (this can optimize gas usage slightly when submitting messages to the chain)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When comparing task priority:

- High priority tasks are considered first.
- Sectors with deals are considered second. Additional deals increase the priority.
- If the above is equal, tasks are selected based on priorities in the table.
- If the above is equal, sectors with lower sector numbers are selected (this can optimize gas usage slightly when submitting messages to the chain).
```

### Control groups

> Countrol groups (cgroups) is a Linux Kernel feature that limits, accounts for, and isolates the resource usage of a collection of processes. If cgroups are in use on the host, the Lotus Worker will honor the cgroup memory limits configured on the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Countrol groups (cgroups) is a Linux kernel feature that limits, accounts for, and isolates the resource usage of a collection of processes. If cgroups are in use on the host, the Lotus Worker will honor the cgroup memory limits configured on the host.
```

> Variables for resource allocation tuning (overrides settings in the resource allocation table).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are the default variables for resource allocation tuning. These values override settings in the resource allocation table.
```

> {{< details "32G environment" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< details "32 GB environment" >}}
```

GSK_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
GSK_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
GSK_32G_MIN_MEMORY=4294967296
PC1_32G_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=10485760
PC1_32G_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
PC1_32G_MAX_MEMORY=68719476736
PC1_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
PC1_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
PC1_32G_MIN_MEMORY=60129542144
PC2_32G_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
PC2_32G_GPU_UTILIZATION=1
PC2_32G_MAX_MEMORY=16106127360
PC2_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM=-1
PC2_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=6
PC2_32G_MIN_MEMORY=16106127360
PR1_32G_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
PR1_32G_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
PR1_32G_MAX_MEMORY=1073741824
PR1_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM=0
PR1_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
PR1_32G_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
PR2_32G_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=34359738368
PR2_32G_GPU_UTILIZATION=1
PR2_32G_MAX_MEMORY=161061273600
PR2_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM=-1
PR2_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=6
PR2_32G_MIN_MEMORY=32212254720
RU_32G_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
RU_32G_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
RU_32G_MAX_MEMORY=4294967296
RU_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
RU_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
RU_32G_MIN_MEMORY=4294967296
UNS_32G_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=10485760
UNS_32G_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
UNS_32G_MAX_MEMORY=68719476736
UNS_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
UNS_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
UNS_32G_MIN_MEMORY=60129542144
```
{{< /details >}}

> {{< details "512MB Environment" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< details "512 MB Environment" >}}
```

GSK_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
GSK_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
GSK_512M_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
PC1_512M_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=1048576
PC1_512M_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
PC1_512M_MAX_MEMORY=1073741824
PC1_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
PC1_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
PC1_512M_MIN_MEMORY=805306368
PC2_512M_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
PC2_512M_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
PC2_512M_MAX_MEMORY=1610612736
PC2_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM=-1
PC2_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
PC2_512M_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
PR1_512M_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
PR1_512M_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
PR1_512M_MAX_MEMORY=1073741824
PR1_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM=0
PR1_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
PR1_512M_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
PR2_512M_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=10737418240
PR2_512M_GPU_UTILIZATION=1
PR2_512M_MAX_MEMORY=1610612736
PR2_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
PR2_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
PR2_512M_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
RU_512M_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
RU_512M_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
RU_512M_MAX_MEMORY=1073741824
RU_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
RU_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
RU_512M_MIN_MEMORY=1073741824
UNS_512M_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=1048576
UNS_512M_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
UNS_512M_MAX_MEMORY=1073741824
UNS_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
UNS_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
UNS_512M_MIN_MEMORY=805306368
```
{{< /details >}}

> {{< details "64GB Environment" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< details "64 GB Environment" >}}
```

RU_64G_MAX_MEMORY=8589934592
RU_64G_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
RU_64G_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
RU_64G_MIN_MEMORY=8589934592
RU_8M_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=8388608
RU_8M_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
RU_8M_MAX_MEMORY=8388608
RU_8M_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
RU_8M_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
RU_8M_MIN_MEMORY=8388608
UNS_2K_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=2048
UNS_2K_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
UNS_2K_MAX_MEMORY=2048
UNS_2K_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
UNS_2K_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
UNS_2K_MIN_MEMORY=2048
UNS_32G_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=10485760
UNS_32G_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
UNS_32G_MAX_MEMORY=68719476736
UNS_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
UNS_32G_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
UNS_32G_MIN_MEMORY=60129542144
UNS_512M_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=1048576
UNS_512M_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
UNS_512M_MAX_MEMORY=1073741824
UNS_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
UNS_512M_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
UNS_512M_MIN_MEMORY=805306368
UNS_64G_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=10485760
UNS_64G_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
UNS_64G_MAX_MEMORY=137438953472
UNS_64G_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
UNS_64G_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
UNS_64G_MIN_MEMORY=120259084288
UNS_8M_BASE_MIN_MEMORY=8388608
UNS_8M_GPU_UTILIZATION=0
UNS_8M_MAX_MEMORY=8388608
UNS_8M_MAX_PARALLELISM=1
UNS_8M_MAX_PARALLELISM_GPU=0
UNS_8M_MIN_MEMORY=8388608
```
{{< /details >}}

## Advanced PoSt worker configurations

> {{< alert icon="tip" >}}
>  Use with caution as changing these values to extremes might cause you to miss windowPoSt.
>  {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< alert icon="tip" >}}
Use with caution. Changing these values to extremes might cause you to miss windowPoSt.
 {{< /alert >}}
```

> Although the default settings are reasonable you can configure some advanced settings when running the PoSt workers, that can be tested for local optimizations of your hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the default settings are reasonable, you can configure some advanced settings when running the PoSt workers. These settings should be tested for local optimizations of your hardware.
```

> ```
>     --post-parallel-reads value   maximum number of parallel challenge reads (0 = no limit) (default: 128)
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
The `--post-parallel-reads` option lets you set an upper boundary of how many challenges it reads from your storage simultaneously. This option is set to 128 by default.

```plaintext
--post-parallel-reads value   maximum number of parallel challenge reads (0 = no limit) (default: 128)
```
````

> Lets you set an upper boundary of how many challenges it reads from your storage simultaneously. At defualt this is set to 128.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```
>    --post-read-timeout value     time limit for reading PoSt challenges (0 = no limit) (default: 0s)
> ```
> 
> Lets you set a cut off time for reading challenges from storage, after which it will abort the job. At default this is set to no limit.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
The `--post-read-timeout` option lets you set a cut off time for reading challenges from storage, after which it will abort the job. This option has no default limit.

```plaintext
--post-read-timeout value     time limit for reading PoSt challenges (0 = no limit) (default: 0s)
```
````

@LexLuthr what is _it_ in this context:

> after which it will abort the job

Is _it_ the `lotus-worker`?

toc: true
---

> While the Lotus workers has very reasonable default settings, some storage providers might want to fine tune some advanced configurations according to their setup.

Author: ```suggestion
While the Lotus workers have very reasonable default settings, some storage providers might want to fine tune some advanced configurations according to their setup.
```
